(cheerful music)
So far, when we add any data here,
and we add items to our order,
and then we refresh the page,
we lose both our menu items here as well as our order.
So, what we wanna do is, when we load in some fishes,
or when we create a new fish, or when we update the fish,
we want to save that to a database,
so that when I come back to it at a later point in time,
or when someone actually visits our store,
that data needs to be available to them.
So, we are gonna be using a service from Google,
called Firebase, and Firebase is awesome,
because it's super easy to get up and running,
it's really intuitive for JavaScript developer,
and, most of all, it is real-time.
Meaning that if I update any piece of data
on our application that is in Firebase,
it will automatically relay that to
everyone else who has a store open.
It uses a technology called WebSockets,
which is part of HTML5,
and WebSockets allows us to do real-time,
rather than using like a Ajax,
where we ping the database for changes.
So, I just want to show you an example
of how Firebase works. So, I have my answer going up here,
and as I refresh it's going to give me a random one,
and if I go over to my Firebase database here,
you can see that this is my database,
and then underneath that we're going to have
all of our stores, and (laughing) looks like somebody,
I just deleted this, but somebody must be trying to demo
out on the website, 'cause they just created that.
Now, as soon as I visit the store, you see what happens
is it updates handsome-helpless-nuclei,
and I open it up and there is only an owner,
which we are gonna be using that for authentication,
but as soon as I load some sample fishes in,
you'll see that that data is automatically relayed
to Firebase. So we got fish one through nine,
and then as I add them to the order,
the order is not going to be,
we're gonna be using something called
Local Storage for that.
But, what's kinda neat about that
is as soon as I make a change,
let me zoom out on this so we can see.
Soon as I make a change to Pacific Halibut,
maybe say Atlantic...
You see that it's obviously updating right here,
it's updating right here, and it's updating right here.
Which is great, because that's updating our state,
but the state is also being mirrored to our Firebase, right.
You can see it says, "Atlantic Halibut."
So, that means if I change it to West Halibut and hit enter,
you see that that data automatically updated,
and is now mirrored over to our Catch-of-the-Day
application right here and right here,
similarly, if I were open this up in maybe Safari,
you can see I can't login cause I'm not the owner of that,
and that's what we will go over
in our authentication episode, but it says, "West Halibut."
Now, if I were to change this again to "Cool Halibut"
and hit enter, it updated it both in Safari
as well as in every other browser that currently
has this item open, which is amazing.
So, let's get started with that,
what I need you to do is to sign-up.
Go to firebase.google.com and sign-up for an account
or just login with your Google account.
I need you to make a new project,
so we're gonna go ahead and add a new project here,
and you can call that Catch of the Day,
and then you can put your name in there,
cause there's gonna be lots of us with it.
So Wes Bos, I've done this a couple times
I'm gonna put 2 on it,
and it's gonna give you a nice project.
Then, you can decide where the data is going to go,
and, we can create the project.
Now, while that is creating,
let's go into our actual application here,
and we're gonna create a new file called base.js,
and this is not gonna go in the components folder,
it's not a component, it's gonna go directly
in our SRC file.
So, call this base.js,
and no capitals or anything on that one,
and then inside of this we need two packages.
So, first we're gonna import somethin called the rebase,
and that's going to be from a package called re-base,
and that's going to allow us,
it's like a React/Firebase specific package
that's gonna allow us to mirror our state
to our Firebase changes. And then we also need
the official Firebase package from Firebase,
and that's what we're going to be using
for anything that is not just mirroring to state.
And when we setup re-base,
we actually have to pass it out Firebase.
Now, inside of that we need to configure our application,
so let's say const.firebaseApp = firebase.initializeApp,
and then inside of that we need to go back
to our application here, that the project is now ready,
so we're gonna click on continue.
And Firebase has a couple of different items in it,
they have off, which we're gonna use,
they have a database, real-time database,
which we are gonna use.
Then they also have the ability
to host your application there, and maybe store files,
and do something called server-less function,
so we're not using those three ones,
in this tutorial we will just be using the Auth
and the Database, so click on the Databse that you got here,
and we're going to click on the Get Started.
We're just looking for some sort of authentication.
And, by default Firebase puts some auth on it,
and what we're gonna do is we're gonna temporarily
disable that authentication until we get to those videos,
so let's go over to our rules, here.
And, you're going to change these
to read true, write true,
and that's gonna open up all of the security rules,
obviously you would never do that
in a production application,
we're gonna be coming back to that,
for now let's just open it right up
so that we can get prototyping,
and we'll go ahead and publish that.
And, next what we need to do is get that configuration,
we need apiKeys and authDomain and whatnot,
so that is....
That is available if you go to project overview,
and it says, "Get started here."
We are doing a webapp, so you click that,
and it's going to give us the config that we need.
So, let's just copy, we don't need everything
just this object right here, copy that,
go ahead and take these away,
and I'll paste it in there.
We actually really only need a couple things,
so we need the apiKey, we need the authDomain,
and we also need the databaseURL.
We can get rid of these things right here
because we're not specifically using them.
Good! Now what we need to do is create our rebase,
so we'll say const base = Rebase.createClass,
and then we will pass it, capital C on there,
we pass it our firebaseApp.database,
and database is a function that will return
the actual database that we have. Good!
Now, so we've created two things here,
we've created our firebaseApp,
and we've creating our rebase binding,
and then we need to export them from here.
So we're gonna say export ;
and here let's leave a comment,
this is a named export. Cause remember in,
let's go over to js, remember when we imported formatPrice?
That was a named import, we knew what it was called,
and this is a named export,
and then we're also going to say,
"This is a default export."
So, the main thing that gets exported from this base.js
config file, is our base that we've created with rebase.
We'll say export default base,
and that's gonna allow us to bring it into our other file.
So, that's good, we can close all these files down.
Now, what we need to do is go back into our app.js,
and we need to now mirror our fish state
over to what is our firebase. And in order to do that,
we need to sort of wait until this App component
is on the page, and then we'll start to sync them up.
So, this is where we're gonna start getting into
what are called Lifestyle Methods.
And Lifecycle Methods in React are,
if you're used to jQery, you know that we have
a document ready and that's when the page is ready to go,
or you have like a window on load,
and that's when all the images have been downloaded.
In React we have all kinds of Lifecycle Methods
that essentially tell us when certain things are happening,
and the one that we're going to be using
is called componentDidMount(),
and componentDidMount() is sort of like a hook
into the very first possible second
that the application is loaded onto the page,
and in our page the specific app componoent.
So, you can take a quick look here
at all the React lifecycle methods.
There's the constructor(), which we've talked about,
there's compononentWillMount(), render(),
componentDidMount(), and then there's a whole bunch
for updating, shouldComponentUpdate(),
compnonentWillUpdate(), we're go over a couple more of these
in specific use cases, but definitely take a look
at the docs for all of the different
lifecycle methods that we have.
So, we're gonna go into
our app here, and above our custom methods
we're going to add a compononentDidMount(),
and let's just do a console.log("MOUNTED"),
let's just double check that that's still firing,
open it up, yeah we get our app
that js console.logging "MOUNTED."
So, now that we know we're in good shape,
what we're going to do is import our firebase.
So, let's say import base from up a level,
and then that is just going to be from the base.js file,
and in our componentDidMount() we're going to say
this.ref, and this.ref is different than the actual
input refs that we were talking about earlier,
refs in Firebase are sort of the reference to
a piece of data in the database,
and we'll talk more about that in the future.
I'll say base.syncState(),
and we're going to sync this with
not with the entire database, cause it's unnecessary,
let me go back to my database and show you,
let me go back to that other one I was working with,
and go to database.
So, all this data here, we don't necessarily care
about king, or uptight-jealous-women, or helpless-cacti,
because that's not our data for this specific store,
we just care about the handsome-helpless-nuclei, right?
So, we're going to sync it with the name of the store.
And where do we get the name of the store in app?
Well, let's go back here, let's look at it.
Quaint-defeated-people, and if we look at our app component,
you'll notice that we have props from React router,
React router is gonna give our props,
and in match there's going to be something call params,
and then there's going to be a storeId,
and that will give us quaint-defeated-people,
that will give us whatever is in the actual URL.
So, we will sync it with,
and we will put the params in there,
this.props.match.params.storeId,
and that seems a little bit long,
and that is probably true.
So, what we can do is we can destructor that our
into it's own variable, we'll just name it params.
So, above we'll say const...
Params = this.props.match,
and then we're able to grab the params.storeID in there,
and then /fishes, right?
Because even inside of our catch-of-the-day,
if we're inside of one of the specific,
we don't care about the owner just yet,
we're going to be going into that,
but we care about the fishes, not anything else.
So, that's why we do /fishes.
That's a kinda cool thing about Firebase,
is as you get deep in nested objects,
you just do /// and that helps you go deeper.
So, that is the ref to / the store name /
the actual fishes object, which will contain
and mirror our state. Good? And then the sync state
also requires an object of some options,
the first one is context, it is going to be this,
and the state that we are going to sync
is going to be fishes, right?
It's not going to be our order state,
we're going to be syncing our fish state.
So, if I give that a save...
Now, I can close this out, if we go to our application,
and we go to our database...
Going to look at it, get started, there's nothing in there,
but if I load some sample fishes, boom!
Look at, quaint-defeated-people, fishes,
all of that data is now being synced,
and if I change Pacific Halibut to Atlantic...
And go back, oooh! It has changed as well,
so isn't that amazing, that just this much code
is able to sync our state we don't have to do any
updating and whatnot? So, I really like this package
for syncing state between Firebase and our state.
Now, what we also have to do is that we are now
listening for changes on here,
but if I were to go back and then go into another one
called the Wes-Store and visit that one,
and load in some fishes, now what I have done,
is I've created two stores, however we unmounted
the application by going back to the store picker,
and then we remounted it by going forward.
And if your user were to do that multiple times,
what happens is you are sort of listening for changes
every single time, but you're never unlistening for changes,
and that can lead to what is called a memory leak
in the future because you forgot to actually
kinda cleanup after you left that store.
So, that's exactly what we need to do,
we're going to be using another Lifecycle Method
called componentWillUnmount(),
and as soon as the component is unmounting,
so console.log("UNMOUNTING");
And, so, here we go.
Now, let's go to this page.
I visit a store, and then I go back,
you see that it says "UNMOUNTING," why?
Because that triggered an unmount
because the app component is no longer shower.
And then we simply just need to take our base package
and removeBinding(this.ref);
and that's exactly why we stored
the reference to the database in this.ref,
so that when we leave, we can remove it.
Beautiful! So, I'm gonna visit the store,
and then when I go back, it's gonna unmount it for me,
and clean up any memory issues that may have.
Beautiful! So, now when we load the page,
load some sample fishes, and I refresh the page,
you see that after a split second,
the fish are immediately re-instated into my store,
because they are now being persisted in our database.
One last thing, you'll probably see this
FIREBASE WARNING: Invalid query segment,
I did look this up, and it's just an issue
with the current Firebase package,
once they've already fixed it on gitHub
and once they push that, it should no longer be an issue.
So, if you do see this, you're taking it in
the first couple days after I release it.
You can totally safely ignore that.